Definition:
Cryptography is the practice and study of techniques for securing communication and data in the presence of adversaries.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

How it works:
1. To protect the message, it is first converted to unreadable form. For example, some random numbers.
2. A key is used to encrypt this message, in Cryptography, this encrypted message is called ciphertext.
3. This ciphertext or encrypted message is sent over the communication channel.
4. A decryption key is used to decrypt the message and recover the original plaintext.
5. After using the key for decryption what will come out is the original plaintext message.
6. If the message was tempered in the middle of communication, then this decryption will result in an error.
7. Now, this error is very important. It is the way user knows that message sent to them is not the same as the message that is received.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Classification of Cryptography:
1. Symmetric key Cryptography (Secret key Cryptography):
    An encryption system in which the sender and receiver of a message share a single,
    common key that is used to encrypt and decrypt the message. The most popular
    symmetric–key system is the Data Encryption Standard (DES)

2. Transposition Ciphers:
    In Cryptography, a transposition cipher is a method of encryption by which the positions
    held by units of plaintext (which are commonly characters or groups of characters) are
    shifted according to a regular system, so that the ciphertext constitutes a permutation
    of the plaintext.
    See transposition-cipher.png

3. Substitution Cipher:
    Method of encryption by which units of plaintext are replaced with ciphertext, according
    to a fixed system; the “units” may be single letters (the most common), pairs of letters,
    triplets of letters, mixtures of the above, and so forth.
    See substitution-cipher.png

4. Stream Cipher:
    Symmetric or secret-key encryption algorithm that encrypts a single bit at a time.
    With a Stream Cipher, the same plaintext bit or byte will encrypt to a different bit or
    byte every time it is encrypted.
    See Stream-cipher.png

5. Block Cipher:
    An encryption method that applies a deterministic algorithm along with a symmetric key
    to encrypt a block of text, rather than encrypting one bit at a time as in stream ciphers
    See Block-cipher-aht.png

6. Asymmetric Key Encryption (or Public Key Cryptography):
    The encryption process where different keys are used for encrypting and decrypting the
    information. Keys are different but are mathematically related, such that retrieving the
    plain text by decrypting ciphertext is feasible
    See public-key-encryption.png

7. RSA Algorithm: How RSA key is generated
    - RSA stands for Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman, inventors of this technique
    - Both public and private key are interchangeable
    - Variable Key Size (512, 1024, or 2048 bits)
    Eg. See RSA-encryption.png

8. Enigma cipher

9. Digital encryption Standards (Fiestal cipher) : 56 bit key

10. Advanced encryption Standards (Rijndael)

------------

Public-Private key encrytion demo : http://cobweb.cs.uga.edu/~dme/csci6300/Encryption/Crypto.html
